Now in this particular video I want to talk about the two different roles of a function inside of javascript's.
Now essentially these two roles spawned from the fact that you can call a function with or without the
key word new.
So in that case I'll write it for you without or with the key word new.
So for example let's go ahead and make a function and we'll call it capital P person have a name property.
In this case we'll do this.
Name equals name.
Now we've seen this before right.
So nothing new here.
And then aside from that we'll do let's say will do.
Var person or we could do a concert if we're feeling really cool.
Conc person equals new person and we'll pass something like Janet and then after that we'll do concert's
not person.
And in that case will set it equal to just person and we'll try to do the same thing as before.
So if we actually counseled log these which shouldn't be too hard you'll see that one of them is actually
an object now.
And the other one is just a essentially undefined thing.
So let me go ahead and print that out for you.
And you can see this one is undefined.
And this one is actually an object with the name of a person.
So the reason for this is whenever you call a function there are two internal read only methods.
The first one is referred to as call and the second one is referred to as constructs.
So it looks something like this.
If you ever see people talk about it they'll typically write it out like this call and then construct
whenever you call a function without the keyword new like we did here.
All it does is execute whatever is in the body of the function.
So in this case it will just execute this function that we've written out right here.
If you call a function with the keyword new it's responsible for creating a new object often referred
to as the new target and then setting the keyword this equal to the recently created object and implicitly
returning that object.
And that is why we receive this object inside of our variable right here.
So how do we make sure that people use this constructor function the way it's supposed to be used.
We need to use it with the keyword new.
But as of right now the only thing that tells someone that they should use the keyword new with this
function is to capitalize the first letter as is often done in javascript.
Well the way that people used to do it before was they would make a modification like this so I will
write out old school checking.
So what they'll do is they'll do something like If this is an instance of and then person like so then
you'll do your assignments or make that assignment right there.
Pop it out pop that in and then else it'll probably throw an error so you throw new error and then we'll
do something like let's say this function must use the key word new with it like so.
However this is problematic and we're going to talk about exactly why this is problematic even though
it does help me out right here when I try and assign this right here without using the keyword new.
We'll talk about why this is problematic in the next.